# Smart-Traffic-System
This is an IOT project developed by me and my tame mates at The Robotics Club - SNIST. This project is designed to solve a major issue in the traffic system, mostly focusing on Cross roads or X roads.
  In cities one of the most prevalent issues encountered by individuals is the insufferable traffic congestion. Traffic congestion occurs when there is an imbalance, between the number of vehicles on the road and the capacity of the transportation system, including both infrastructure and management. This can result in delays and inefficiencies, for commuters. This situation can have an impact, on businesses, which in turn has an effect, on the economy. Students and Employees are also affected by the traffic jam and the effect of it on their lives play a major role on their productivity at work or school. Additional pollution, increased fuel consumption and delayed delivery of goods are some of the consequences of traffic congestion. In situations involving emergencies the waiting time caused by traffic jams can be particularly costly. There have been instances where ambulances have had to wait for the traffic to clear before reaching their destination.
Our Approach to solve this problem: 
  Keeping the traffic in the scenario our team has brought this system that helps us to control the traffic efficiently which reduces in heavy traffic jams. There are IR sensors installed in each lane, which receive the count of number of vehicles in a particular lane. This ensures a flow of traffic. In case an emergency vehicle, such as an ambulance is approaching it is equipped with an RFID transmitter. The UIDs of these emergency vehicles must already be registered with the traffic control system. If there is a match, between the UID transmitted by the emergency vehicle and those registered in our system that specific lane will be given priority by turning its signal to green while others are set to red for an interval of time.
